- [Instructor] Flux is an operator for Kubernetes
that focuses on continuous deployment.
It's typically one of the first GitOps tools
that a developer encounters.
The toll started out as a Weaveworks project
before it was donated to the
Cloud Native Computing Foundation,
where it's reached incubation status.
The current iteration of Flux, known as Flux v2,
should reach general availability
by the time that you view this course.
When deployed to a Kubernetes cluster,
Flux uses custom resource definitions
to determine how to keep the resources deployed
on the cluster in sync with the source of configuration.
A typical workflow is to store Kubernetes manifests
in a Git repository.
Those manifests will describe the containerized workload
for your system.
Flux is then used to apply the resources in the manifests
on the cluster and to keep the cluster in sync
with the desired state stored in Git.
If you package manifests into a Helm chart,
Flux also has a Helm controller
that can sync the chart with the cluster.
We've seen Flux before when we worked with Azure Arc.
In that scenario, Azure Arc did all of the heavy lifting
to bootstrap Flux on the cluster.
Let's look at how to bootstrap Flux on a Kubernetes cluster
without that assistance from Azure Arc.
To start out, we need kubectl installed on our workstation
and configured with our cluster.
This allows us to use Flux's command line interface
for interacting with the cluster.
The Flux command line interface exposes a bootstrap command
that does two things.
First, it deploys Flux into the cluster
and it establishes a number of controllers
used by Flux to manage the cluster.
Then, it creates a repository inside of GitHub
that it will use to manage itself.
Within the repository, we place definitions
for custom resources used by the Flux controllers
to oversee operations on the cluster.
Flux monitors the repositories to determine
what custom resources should be applied.
Notice the pattern?
That's right, Flux uses GitOps to manage itself
and to establish the GitOps workflows
that deploy our applications.
Okay, so that's enough about how to bootstrap Flux.
Let's shift over to some hands-on flux installation
to get a feel for how it works.